for more on the humanitarian situation
in Gaza let's speak to Tess SRAM who
spokesperson for Unicef the United
Nations Children's Fund and she's live
from Rafa in southern Gaza Tess good to
have you again with us on Al jazer I
guess your reaction first to Israel's
decision to open the ARs Crossing in
Northern Gaza what difference is that
going to
make look we're going to have to wait
and see how it all plays out in practice
but it's really good news we've been
asking for weeks now for this Crossing
to be opened we've used it before for
and we know how important it is to get
supplies into the northern Gaza Strip
because of course the two crossings that
are open at the moment are both in the
South and require us to transport all of
the aid up the Gaza Strip so this is
really welcome news but we need it to
happen soon we need it to happen its
scale and we need it to be
sustained but you say it's an important
Crossing uh test Ares though has been
the main crossing point for people um to
get in and out of Gaza how is opening
The Crossing going to help ease I mean
it's mostly been used for people how is
it going to to be used for Aid to get
into Northern
Gaza I know that this is something that
the UN has has been thinking about for
some weeks now as you say it's primarily
a pedestrian Crossing but so was Rafa so
um it's you know something that we're
working on and we hope to be able to get
a trucks in at scale through our R
because we have so few options we really
need to take all of the options that we
have to be able to get food Aid into the
people of North Gaza who are on the
precipice of a famine right there is
getting the food Aid in but is there's
also ensuring Safety and Security right
for the people who are going to be
Distributing this food as we've seen in
in recent months this hasn't always been
guaranteed by the israelies what
measures are you hoping Israel is going
to take in addition to opening this
border
crossing yeah that's right and you know
as well as our safety it's the safety of
the people we're trying to help we've
obviously seen incidents as well where
people trying to access Aid have been
killed so it's really important that we
make the situation for the distribution
of AIDS safer what we're asking for at
the moment is for international
humanitarian law to be followed and one
key part of that is this notification
and coordination system that world
Central Kitchen mentioned in their
statement on Tuesday that means that
when we go on missions we coordinate
with Israel to make sure that they know
where we're going and what we're doing
and that helps them follow International
humanitarian law and protect us but at
the moment that system is clearly broken
it's not working properly as we saw with
the tragic incident on Monday night yeah
it's a deconfliction process right what
specific changes would you like to see
made to this deconfliction
process well it's a process that works
in other conflicts around the world and
this is the really frustrating thing the
system is fine it's the implementation
of the system that's not working it is
not being respected we receive a safety
assurance and then we go on a mission
where we are told we will be safe and we
were delayed for hours at A checkpoint
our staff are interrogated they're put
In Harm's Way or they're killed and
that's not acceptable that's not what is
meant to happen once we receive these
safety assurances so that's something
that needs to be remedied with the ARs
uh Crossing uh opening up and also the
port of ashdod uh do you have any more
Det details test that you could share
with us perhaps about you know the
quantity of Aid that is going to go in
uh and also how soon the border crossing
will be open
itself unfortunately not yet this is all
kind of emerging this morning so we are
going to need to engage today and in the
coming days with Israel to make sure
that we understand how this is going to
operate and as I said when we need to
make sure this is going to happen soon
that it can bring Aid in at scale and we
need to confirm that it's going to be
sustained because we've been told we've
heard that temporary we don't know for
how long thank you very much for talking
to us thank you for your time Tess
Ingram spokesperson for Unicef joining
us there from Rafa in southern Gaza